Well as I said in the last video I'd like to create an eye ball to put in here so we have something
to kind of sculpt around when we're working on the face.
So let's just go to a brand new layer here and let's create an eyeball.
First thing I guess I should do is create a sphere I'm going to create this sphere here.
And I'm going to come down here and let's change this from 16 rings and 32 segments Let's change the
segment to 24.
See if that helps us any here.
Let's change the segments instead from 16 here and 24 here to see how that works.
I think that's what I want.
Yeah let's go with this.
So what I want to do now is rotate it so it's facing forward.
So in the properties panel by pressing the N key I will come up here and rotate it around the X-axis
90 degrees so it's facing forward there and to create the pupil and the iris let's tab into edit mode
and I think I'll begin with this edge right here this third edge out and what I'd like to do is just
insert a couple of edge loops on either side of this.
So one way to do that is just press control r and insert some edge loops here and I'll just drag this
so it's pretty tight against there and control are here and move it up so it's pretty tight against
there as well.
Now what I need to do is flatten this area right this area here is going to be completely flat.
So I want to move the cursor so I can scale at this point so I'm going to Allt click this edge and press
shift s and select cursor to selected and that'll move that cursor right in the center of the ring there.
Now I want to select all of these points so all press control tab go to vertex mode and I'll select
that one vertex in the center and then I'll press control plus to expand the selection out to that original
edge.
Now let me close the property panel with the key.
I'll go to the side view with the three key press the five key on that number pad to go to orthographic
view and the Z key to go to wireframe.
Now if we zoom in here we can see that we've got our cursor right here aligned with that original edge.
So what I want to do is scale from that cursor so I'll change that pivot point to the 3D cursor and
then I'll change my scale tool and I'll just click and drag and move this in until it's pretty much
flat.
I like that.
Now if we come back around here and look at it we can see that we've got this flat pupil area here.
Now I want to create the iris.
So the iris is going to be extruded in from here.
So I'll go to face mode with control tab and then I'll just hit the three key to go to face mode and
to select these faces here I can just press the C key for circle select scroll the mouse wheel to change
the size of the brush there and just click and drag those faces and then right click to get out of that
tool.
Now I better switch back to median point for my pivot now just hit the key for extrude and click.
Let me just change to the move tool and I'll just drag back.
There we go.
So now we've got the Irace.
So there's the basis of our eye.
I should probably add a subdivision surface modifier on here.
We just pull this guy down a bit and add a subdivision surface and maybe increase the views to also
I'll come over here to the Tools tab right here and click smooth so we get a nice smooth kind of surface.
Now the edges here are collapsing I don't want that to happen.
Some of insert a couple of edge loops to hold this here press control are and bring that in and insert
another edge loop up in here.
And maybe another one right down in here.
It doesn't completely matter because this is really a temporary.
So we don't have to get too detailed or perfect with it.
But let me do one other thing in here what I want to do is just go into face mode and select these faces
here and I'm just going to hit the e key to extrude and then hit the as to scale that in a hair something
like that.
So that holds it a little tighter.
And I'll also come up here and choose this adjust a cage so we can see the modifier happening when we're
in edit mode.
So that's our basic eye if we wanted to try and get rid of this polling that's happening here we could
come in and dissolve every other edge.
Let me just show you what I mean here so we can select every other edge in here and change these from
tri's or triangles to quads.
So I could just come in here select those hit X and choose dissolve edges instead of edges and then
that will change these two four sided quads and try them and help clean up that pulling that happens
when so many edges come down to a single point.
But as I said this is just kind of a temporary thing so we don't need to get too intricate with it.
So now that we've got the I created let's take that up and put it in the character I'll shift click
on the first letter to bring the character back and let's bring this up and scale it and try and put
it in there.
We're going to go over to my character images screen lay out and hit the three key here.
And for this guy a better turn on optimal display or else it's going to be too dense and I'll just move
this over here and I'm just going to try and use the character drawings as a guide to try and get this
I where we needed to go and he pressed the T to get rid of that panel.
So let's see I scale it a bit bring it forward some let's see how this looks.
I'm going to hit the Z key like so little big you scale that down a bit
I'll move this right about here and let's try this.
All right let's go back to our default view and zoom in yeah I think I'm going to leave it right there
for now and begin pulling these out a bit.
So let me go ahead and mirror this over to the other side.
I'll call this one.
I left
and I'm going to go ahead and apply the rotation and scale here so I'll press control a and apply the
rotation and scale ago.
Now what I want to do is mirror it over but I need to know that the cursor is in the center.
It looks like it is going to go ahead and make sure cursor to center and then I'm going to set the origin
of that object to the 3D cursor.
So now the origin of the object is right down here at the center of the grid.
So now when I mirror it it will mirror around that pivot point or Scuse me around the origin of the
object.
So click add modifier and mirror and there we go.
So now it's a mirroring across the x axis.
So now what I'll do is just apply that
and then I'll come in here and select this.
I over here in edit mode because when I applied it these became all one object.
So what I need to do is just hover over this object in an edit mode and press the L key and that will
select all linked faces of that piece of the object.
And now I just need to hit the P key and choose separate by selection.
And now that creates a whole new object for this piece over here.
So now we've got I underscore.
Well now this one needs to be I underscore our.
And the last thing I'd like to do is just bring the origins back to these two objects so I'll select
this and say set origin to geometry and there it is.
And do the same thing with that over here.
Now we go.
So now we've got two eyes that we can use to better understand of where things on our head is going
to go.
There are things on the character's head I should say so in the next video we'll begin using our eyes
to create the cheekbones the brows the nose and kind of finalize the structure of the face.